What should be addictive and what should not
===
This is a very important question to answer for our time. This is an era of big shift of manpower towards making entertainment products - movies, music, video games. Traditionally these products were driven by artistic goals. But after the information revolution they are mainly driven by financial gains. By definition these are for entertainment. Artistically driven products try to explore all kinds of emotions that could be evoked by interacting with the product. But financially driven products are tagetted towards only exploring pleasurable feelings. When something promises you pleasure, one gets addicted to it. It givens them an escape from a possibly boring real life.

If the fantasy life that the entertainment products offer the user can last them for their lifetime then it's not a problem. Who are we to say that an interesting fantasy life is not good compared to boring real life. For instance, if you could spend literally all your life in World of Warcraft universe and your activities their would take care of all your bodily needs, then no reason to come back to reality. But that's not the case. Playing WoW is not going to pay your bills. If the entertainment product does not empower the user to deal with the reality, then it should not be addictive. The addiction to WoW can be only beneficial to successful streamers, because the activity is providing them with means to getting things done in real life. The same cannot be said to the viewers who are addicted to watching those streams.
